# Disclaimer
This analysis is intended for educational and research purposes only and has not been peer-reviewed. While efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy of the methods and results, the author does not guarantee the correctness or completeness of the analysis. The author bears no responsibility or liability for any errors, omissions, or outcomes resulting from the use of this material. Use at your own discretion.

# Condom-use-and-HIV-testing
The incidence and prevalence of the infection by the Human
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), as well as the severity of the associated
disease, have significantly decreased worldwide. This progress has been
made possible due to improved understanding of the pathogen and its
pathogenesis (Harper et al. 2024), increased access to antiretroviral
therapy (ART) (Cao, Hsieh, and Li 2020), enhanced HIV testing and
awareness, effective prevention of mother-to-child transmission (Hurst,
Appelgren, and Kourtis 2015), greater availability of pre-exposure
prophylaxis (PrEP) (Liegeon, Delaugerre, and Molina 2024; Zappas and
Foreman 2020), and targeted interventions for key populations and
high-impact regions (Volberding 2011). These and other measures have
contributed to a reduction in the number of new infections. However, the
HIV pandemic remains a public health challenge, particularly among
specific populations such as men who have sex with men (MSM). Sexual
transmission is the primary route of infection, making condom use an
effective prevention method. Additionally, knowing oneâ€™s HIV status
allows infected individuals to receive early care before the disease
progresses to complications, such as HIV-related opportunistic
infections, and helps protect sexual partners from possible
transmission. Some studies have explored the link between HIV testing
and condom use, with findings indicating that being tested for HIV in
the past two years was a predictor of condom use (Agha 2012).

In the present analysis, we aim to examine the association between
condom use during the last sexual intercourse and HIV testing within the
last 12 months, among sexually active individuals. We hypothesize that
individuals who use condoms are more likely to get tested for HIV.
